(209) 260216 Online Lecture - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y96AIlbGt9A

Transcript:
(00:00)  Thank you. you you Thank you. Hey, hello everyone. So welcome back to the AIX Design Contest. I'm sorry to give a lecture  on the holidays, but I believe that you can learn more via these today lectures.
(02:45)  So today lectures, I'm going to talk about the FPGA design.  So this is the outline of today's lecture.  First of all, I would like to recap what we have been covered last week.  And in the next part, I will explain about the FPGA implementation and host PC and FPGA interface.  So first of all, let's talk about what we did last week.
(03:14)  Last week we were discussing about the top module design look like.  And you can do the simulation with the external memory model.  And additionally, you learned how to design multipliers max with DSP from the ip catalog and there we discussed the how to design a buffer with block  ram from ip catalog and you conduct a you know functional and timing simulation so from there  from based on the what you recover you can reproduce the results and make your own design  you can reproduce the results and make your own design.
(04:10)  So this is the figure. So you have the system overview of the entire design.  So at the very abstract level,  you can see that we have a whole species,  the FPGA part, including the FPGA chip,  the red box, so in the figure, and the DRAM chip.  And as you know that we can communicate,  we have a communication between the horse and FPGA via UART  port.
(04:42)  So today we will explain how we can do that.  Okay, so now let's move to the next part, the FPGA implementation.  First of all, we would like to talk about the IP packing example.  the figure and the top figure uh the you know the uh you know this is the message the 4 ddr or nested  a 700t the fpz volt you're using in this competition and uh you can see the red box here  so you uh you know so in here the you know the uh happy they checked and uh this is the block uh you know the fpc design for the chip here
(05:30)  and as you can see there are you know different box here and there inside this you can see some  you know fpc some some resources so like in here if we have a a CPU like the soft core CPU, micro blaze, we encroach  the part of the hardware resources on the FPGA. And on their left hand side and right  hand side here, you can see the IOPAD that you can allow you to connect to the FPGA chip.
(06:07)  So all the pins surrounding the FPGA chip here are utilized to communicate with FPGA.  So in this very simple example here, we will create a simple IP and packet  can create a simple IP and pack it and integrate it into the system.
(06:36)  So the reason we choose very simple IP, simple block here, because the simulation time and  the synthesize and all the times are very short.  So you can quickly learn how to pack how to create simple IP and  packet so the IP we covered today is very simple just one like ALI logic  here it takes you to input A and B and generate the server Kaiser output  including some of the difference or bitwise operations so the logic is very  straightforward so i uh you know i'm going to skip it and one important message we want to  deliver here is we can arrange a port based on the address so assume assume that we have an access, we want to access all the data,
(07:29)  including the input ANP and the output results, including like the summation, difference,  bitwise operation results. We can access it via the offset. So like you want to accept the resistor A, then we use the offset the address  base 00 here, the offset the address 00 here.
(07:56)  And if you want to accept another resistor  storing the results of the calculation, you can accept the database on the offset given on the table  so this is the and the uh rtr simulation code you can retype this code so this is a you know  the test logic uh attachment the attachment for test logic module and this the, we basically initiate the design and then we run some tests, like getting some data from input A and B files.
(08:44)  And then we keep running and then we can get the result so it's very  straightforward so there is no complicated issue here that's about the  RTL simulation so this part here it just aim for you know validating the  result of the designs and as you know the design in the previous pages is quite straightforward.
(09:08)  There's no complicated issue.  So we expect to get the correct result.  And some details, verification here.  And the five, you can see that we can grab some data for a and b and we you know we are expected to get some you know  correct results like this is a you know a and b are you know four and one respectively then you  can get the summation of five and you know difference of three or something like that so there is no complicated issue here  so now let's move to the next part so assume that you already create the block design the unknown
(09:54)  create the the text uh the module in the rtl module so it can be jolo engine or it can  be test logic like this so the question is how we can pack the ip pack the modules into the design  that you can integrate it into the system so in here uh you can go to the tools and create and  package a new ip uh you go to the you know the the option like that,  and then it will pop up the windows that you can push that IP package.
(10:35)  So in here, the create and package new IP windows will be pop up,  and then you can click to the next,  and then you can click to the next and then you can choose like here  because all of the components are you know the just the resistor here  so we want to create the xe4 interface for that module  however if you use Zoro, you can pack your current project because inside the project, it includes the XE pop up the window to pack the data to  pack the IP so in here the IP names is testlogix under par axi so you has
(11:38)  axi interface and you can see the versions and the location of the IP.  So here with the IP we want to pack, we have eight resistors, so we will specify the number of resistors  for the slave port here so we want to accept all eight register for the  the module the path logic module and for the jollo engine you only need uh you know four  register by default however if you want to debug uh you want to monitor the values of more resistor you can add more port so it can be you know  you know the number between in between you know 4 and 512 here so you can it allow you to accept
(12:38)  multiple resistor after design so in this specific example here we only accept eight resistors  okay and then in the next so you can add the you know  custom logic by choosing the edit ip and click finish and so like this one so in here we can go  to you know this open the new project so uh you can add the sources the the source of the you know  customize code like a test logic dot v here and there you can add it and then you can edit the  file so like this part you can add you can you know yeah make a block of the you know task logic entity
(13:48)  inside the interface actually interface here so if you pack the ip with your low  engine uh default uh given from the you know the provided code then you don't have to do this but i just explained  you know center flow that you can follow quickly okay and the next part you can um you know map  the ip to the uh you know map the ip register to the um the the resource of the you know the the logic ip so in here  since we want to get the results from the calculation like some mention or difference or  you know on and or bitwise operations you can map that you, you can connect to the resistor index. So you
(14:53)  order the index from 0 to 7 here. Since the 0 and 1 here are reserved for the input, the  remaining six resistors are utilized for the output.  Okay, and now in the next stage, as you can see, you can check  all the information here from identification, compatibility,  file groups, or other things.
(15:22)  And at the last stage here, you  can review and patch the IP. so those things are all the steps you  you're going to follow so here you can see the port and the interfaces and in this particular  example we only have the uh you know the the axi slave port here but in the jolo engine design we can have a master port that allows you to connect to  the you know the external memory so the number the port is going to be extended  and in the last stage here you just review and pack and then it can close the project  Finally, you can finish the packing the design of the IP. So that was a step allowing you to pack the IP.
(16:15)  So I just showed you how we can pack the simple IP.  And now let's move to the next part.  We want to integrate the ip into the system  so this is our target sample design so this is very common figures i already presented to you  at the early stage of the you know you know competitions so as you can see in here in the left hand side we have a host code and in the  right hand side we have a you know fpga chip and this is the fpga board actually and in the fpga  we have a you know uh the fpga chip and we can cover the processor micro plays here
(17:08)  a chip and we can cover the processor micro place here and there are the uart the we will explain what is your art later and there is all chip memory that you know like the catch for the  processor here and uh there is the ax the the custom ip the ip here and in this example we use the test logic ip because it's very simple and  it doesn't take long to synthesize the design but if you use you know larger ip complicated ip then  you know it can be time consuming and we we we have because this an FPGA board and there is a DDR chip, the
(17:48)  DRAM chip here, we can access the DRAM via memory controller, the MIG. So this slide  actually covers all the components we will use for this design. And one message I want to deliver here is  eventually you need to replace the  small TAN logic IP by the Zolo engine later  the accelerator design you made.
(18:23)  Okay, and we will cover other issue like host PC or  you know firmware design okay so first of all let's create a new project for  the block design so just make a very simple project like create the empty  project with the file name and you just choose the directory as you want  and in the project actually you need to select the board that is the board we are going to use  so like in here the vendors gonna be the collision and the board name gonna going to be Nexus DDR4 or if you have a Nexus A700T library, you can use Azure
(19:14)  but you can use Nexus 4 DDR by choosing the board as shown in the figure  and now you can create a project and this is a problem  how does it look like and the next stage we we can create the block design for  the project so in the previous part I already introduced you how to make an IP. So now we want to make the system based on the IP we made. And at the first step, we want to create the block design. And actually you can choose the default design name or you just pick the name you want here.
(20:00)  and now it goes to the kind of blind project and now we want to add the IP one-on-one  first of all we want to add the CPU which is a micro here, and it appears the component, and you select the microplace block the you know the the IP graphic interface the GUI of the IP  going to be appear on the figure here and now you can config the IP you can run the automation  here later but it can config to the IP so after running the you know run block automation here  you can conflict through IP however one critical message I want to tell you here is you need to
(21:19)  config a local memory to the larger number so by default default it's only 8 kilobytes. It's gonna be very small to  cover or to derive many very long code. So if we change it to 32 kilobytes, it ensures to have a  sufficient local memory for test memory applications later. I will explain later. Okay, so please select this.
(21:50)  And now you can see  the system after generating all the modules by default. So in the center here, you can see the  CPU micro plays. And now they generate all the other components like a local memory  so it's going to be 8 32 kilobytes as I mentioned earlier and there is a clock wizard allow you to  config the system clock and other components for you know resetting the system.
(22:26)  And now we need to make a configuration for the clock  wizard.  So for the clock wizard here, we want  to choose two types of clock.  And for the clock input source number one here,  the input clock source, one here the input clock source we will  connect this clock pin to the system clock so that's why we have to select  system clock that allow you to connect to the input of this block and that's  the way here we choose here and this is is for the top uh you know tab uh board here you  choose a system clock here so we just use the system clock and for the output clock the we
(23:17)  want to have a two output clock so you have to click you know one and two here so we want to generate two kinds of output clock  one for uh you know the uh the core the um the accelerator course and another for external  memory so just select the clock output number two here two megahertz here and uh again here we also choose the active low this is a you know  low I keep pins for for the IP okay great so now you can see the if you  complete the clock configuration you can run the connection automation and this you know
(24:08)  as you can see in here it's a component here it just a click and allow the  system do the all the you know connection for you then as you can see  in here now the design here actually mean take you know system clock  and reset signal at their input so you you have a system clock here is connected to the cloud wizard  and um you know at the upper part here it will going to be used to you know to run the all the  other components like clocking here.
(24:46)  And we even have clock output number two,  it's gonna be connected to MIG later.  So that's the way we set up the system right now.  And now we want to add the UI.  IP into the system so you can choose the board here you selected board here and  you pick the UART and you can drag and drop it to the design over here so you  are going to add a new block XEUARTLIGHT0 into the block design here so  just follow the you know the figures the guidelines on the  figure and there if you run the connection automation you just click it then you can
(25:34)  you know do the it allow you to do the connection like this and as you can see  this is the current system of our system you can monitor right now so if you  look at this kind of system you can see that there is the you know system clock and reset signals  and there is a uart port so you can understand like this is the fpz chip right now and the  the pin for system clock reset and you are activated so that's the design  we have right now and for uart we want to to have a maximize speed given by the default given by the
(26:20)  default setting so you can select the you know IP configuration here you can  double click to the URL to block here select the IP configuration and you can  choose the maximum baud rate I will explain what is baud rate later but this  is a maximum baud rate you can choose so around 230,000 you know maximum board rate you can choose so around 230 000 uh you know feet per second so  that's the boot rate we are given to select the maximum board rate we want to select  all right so now we want to add another uh ip another module into the design
(27:08)  IP another module into the design so previously you just make a test logic IP but somehow it was not integrated into the design because if you just click to  the add IP here and try to search the test logic IP you can see there is nothing  so I will show you how we can connect how we can bring that IP into this design so in the IP catalog here in  the project here you select IP catalog and you choose choose the app you know you can right click on this you know and then  choose the app repository and then you can browse to the IP location like a test logic IP or the
(28:00)  solo engine IP and you select. In this particular example here,  we have a location of test logic XC in this location,  and we just browse to that location,  the directory, and we choose a select.  Now, as you can see here,  we can add a new ip to the project so the test logic you know version  1.
(28:39) 0 is going to be added to the uh the overall project and now if you click the add you know  the add ip icon here and you type the test and then you can see the test logic IP is up here and now  we can add it to the system okay so this is a test logic IP  you know it's up here in the system and in the you know in the final stage this  IP gonna be replaced by the JOLulu engine so in here for the very simple  example we just use a task logic ip because we don't want to verify very complicated flow from  this example so back to the diagram now we can click an add ip and search the new IP and you know grab it into this overall system and
(29:26)  again now you can see there is a run connection automation and then you can  click on that and then it just select the you know the provided interfaces and  then you can it can the system when the tools will do the connection for you.  So here, this is the current system right now. As you can see in here, in the top system here, we have a CPU, we have a UART.
(30:00)  And now we have an engine and the system like this is the FPGA chip here.  It takes the input, including system clock and reset.  And there is a UART interfaces allowing to connect to the host PC.  And now if you do the validation, it's going to work.  So let's move to the next stage.  Assume that right now we want to add the external memory interface.
(30:36)  Again we select the board part here, and we select the external memory interface, NVIDIA  2.0 SD RAM. This particular example here.  So first, second, and third step here.  This is the memory interface.  As you can see in here,  it takes the input,  the system clock input here.  So we remove it first.  And the output DDR2-S DRAM can be used to communicate to external memory  so it will now connect the clock R2 here from the clock wizard to the system clock  so the memory interface here utilize higher clock frequency,
(31:25)  two times larger than the core.  So that's the point.  So the external memory here is gonna be run  at the 200 megahertz and other design,  you know, running in the other component here  are running at the 100 megahertz.  Only external memory are running  in a try faster cloud frequency  okay and now you can run uh you know this step you have to do manually and in the next step  you you can run the connection automation and then you it will automatically run all the connection for you.
(32:11)  And this is the kind of final system you can see here.  So this is, you can imagine like this is the FPGA chip,  and it takes the system clock and reset as the input,  and you have a UART to allow you to communicate with uh you know the host pc and it has the ddr2 sd ram interface they have an interface to the d-ram so you allow me to accept  the d-ram so that the you know the ship the system that's going to be deployed on the FPGA chip okay and in the system here  you can see the way they accept their component so they use the address map so
(32:58)  the you know you can see the icache and dcache here you know have an address the the bay address gonna be zero and the uart ip  you can accept via this address and the custom ip like a jolo or the logic the test logic ip  by default it's going to be accessed via this address so at the the early stage, I explained to you the address map.
(33:28)  So you just add like  0, 4, 8, 12, 16, they allow you to access the specific resistor for a given address and for the external memory you have to accept your this bay address so  just use a base plus some offset like a zero four or something to accept the external memory address  okay okay and now you can uh um you know you already complete the the overall design and now we can create a HDL wrapper to  synthesize the design so you can this is a block design that we just make and now we we can double  click to the block design wrapper and you can see all the port so you can see the system clock reset or
(34:27)  USB you are received and you know transmission port and the DVR SD  ramp port so you just you know click to the block design here and right click to  create and select the create HDL wrapper to generate the design and by default you  just let the Vivado manage the wrapper and auto update so you don't have to you  know take care of that part so you just follow the guidelines  And now we can generate the block design wrapper here.
(35:06)  And one important message I like to emphasize here is  you can add there, you have to add the constraint files.  So it already given on their baseline code,  the reference code. So the file name can be slightly different  but the content should be the same so like in here if you look at the constraint file you can see  like uh you know the uh there is the system clock and as you can see this system clock is set to  clock and as you can see this system clock is set to 100 megahertz so you can see the clock cleared in 10 you know nanoseconds here and it's going to be connected to the the pin E3 it's going
(35:58)  to be the clock oscillator pins so it contains you know the the chip the fpz chip is connected to the uh you know system clock  uh you know e3 here and there is the reset uh c12 so i will you know show you the location of c12  later so it's going to be used for reset and as you know that this is the active load reset, so if you push the button, central here, then it's going to be reset the design.
(36:29)  And for other things here, you have a UART.  So the pin for UART is going to be D4 and C4.  And the other pins for external memory access are given in here.  So you can see all the pin names here and it allows to  accept the address or data or something like that so mostly you don't have to care about  this so we already gave you you know the reference the design constraint file so you just add  it to the project okay so now everything is done so So we have a block design, allow you to have a CPU, the UART, the test logic, the Lozolo
(37:14)  engine or the DDR, the memory controller.  So we already have a you know the the block design design here and now you can  uh just run the implementation and generate the bitstream uh so uh just uh you know when you  clicked on the generate the bitstream and then we even uh have a you know it can crop up some windows like synthesize the design or run the implementation.
(37:50)  So you just click OK and follow the design.  And in here, after completing the synthesize, after completing the FPGA implementation here, you can see the  implemented design. So you have a FPGA chip here. And now a part of the chip is going  to be used, utilized to for the design.
(38:29)  So the design has CPU, have a memory interface,  So Zorizai has CPU, have a memory interface, have UART, and the test logic, the custom IP.  And now all the components are mapped to the hardware resources, the FPGA resources here.  So this is the entire chip.  And as you can see, there are some IOPAD here.
(38:49)  It know allow you to accept the you know external memory and uart  so you can see you know the this is the entire fpz chip and a part of the chip part of the chip or  the the part of resources available on the chip gonna be utilized and the rest you need you know that's the room for the improvement so  you can utilize further you can utilize more resources to improve the performance of the design  and in this design you can see the timing information and the nestlet there you know  the component of the design here you have block design wrapper and all other components.
(39:28)  So like microplates, or MIG, or test logic IP.  And you can change the color to see it a little bit more details.  So like in here, you can see that microplates here is a mark with cyan color.  So you can see that this location there is a CPU and the MIG, the memory interface, also cover a quite big part in this certain design here.
(39:57)  So the pink colors represent the  the memory interface resources and the UART here actually is marked in brown colors and  quite small and the IPs the test logic here is marked with the red however if you have a very  big design like a JOLO engine the red part gonna be dominant okay right And this is a plot of project summary summary.
(40:27)  And you can see that how  many resources are you it's like for this design and look up people, uh, the, you know,  the Ram, uh, the dedicated ramps or the flip flop or the VRM want to be utilized. So in utilized so in this particular example here this is vram is utilized for the you know the  uh the uh the the local memory so you have a 32 kilobyte memory so here you need to um you need it need some VRAM.
(41:12)  And other thing is like total on-chip power and timing, what's negative  slack here. So everything is going well here, so there is no timing violation and the resources are okay so we can test the design on the board  okay so in the next stage uh we already complete the design so we can export the design like it can  export the hardware here so um we can go to find export and just uh select the include the bitstream and then you name the you know xsa file xylene  you know archive file and then you click the finish  and you include and you choose the xsa file name and that's done and click next and just
(42:10)  click next and press ok so now you already complete the design the system block and you generate the xs85 and now we can create a project to test the design so as you know  that in our project in in our system we have a c, so you can write the system software, the software on the CPU.  So first of all, you need to launch the FITES. Here, you launch the FITES IDE.
(42:35)  And then you can create the hardware platform based on the XSA file.  And here it is. So we choose the platform name, you choose the file name here, it's  just like a block design MIG and you can direct, you can browse to the, you click the browse  and choose the location of the hardware file, the S85, in the the machine in the pc and you click the finish and now we can see this is the  block design mig this is a you know platform already given and this platform is using micro  plays and it have a you know other components like uart memory interfaces and it have other components like UART, memory interfaces, and it also have a test logic
(43:28)  so it can have exact kind of hardware on the FPG chip.  Okay.  And because the test logic is a kind of custom model, so it can cause some compilation issue so you need to update the  make file so by just you know copying the make file from other ip like the bram or something  like that uh yeah you can have a you can solve the problem of compilation okay and now you can  build the project so you can build successfully the project at the point okay  in the next stage um we can write the application so in here to write the application you choose
(44:17)  in the vtex project here ensure the fly new and select the application project and click next  new and select the application project and click next and then you can uh select the hardware platform and just use the you know block design uh platform the hardware platform we use and as  you can see in here the platform is built uh on the top of the uh you know fpz chip the you know artist 7 chip here this is a model of the chip  and we have a you know microplace other application so uh here we just click next
(44:54)  next here you choose a file name like hello that's a you know block and you choose a  find it here and you can choose the you know the template some project from the template like a  memory test because we already have a memory interface so we can accept the external memory  you can test it so we can select the memory test as an example and we click the finish  and now we can build the project so you can see in here  in the upper part you have a hardware platform so hardware platform you can  cover all the drivers and now you have application built on top of the CPU so
(45:41)  we have a CPU here we have a an application named HelloBlockDesignMIGSystem.  Then that application will be on top of the CPU, on top of the hardware platform.  So you can run the system, you can run the application.  And you just right click here and you can build the project and it will run successfully.
(46:08)  And now you can turn on the FPC board.  I assume that you have a machine, a Windows machine and you turn on, you already connect  the machine to the PC, to the FPC area and now you turn on the FPC board can right click to the application  and we choose runs as the launch FPC and you allows you to run the FPGA design,  the design on the FPGA.
(46:53)  Okay, so now everything is set.  So we already have a design overview,  we run, we implement, and we put it on app easier now and we show you how  we can do the communication so first of all i like to give you a little bit uh theory a little bit  bigger out on the uart so uarts stand for universal asynchronous receiver transmitter protocol so this kind of peripheral devices for  uh asynchronous senior communications so you can transmit the data here you are so it's very  uh common uh you know common interfaces so we can see almost everywhere in the FPGA design. Mostly you see almost everywhere.
(47:54)  So you can assume that you have a host PC here and there is a transmission pin. It's going to be connected to the receiver pin on the fpc and again on the fpc there is a transmission pin  it connect connected to the receiver pins on their you know the holes so that's a very common  communication and now like we can we get imaging like the whole species when will transmit some comments and data, like input image or the weight of the models, and it can receive some response, like output the results from the calculations.
(48:35)  So the host here transmits some data, and then it receives some data via the receiver port here.  So that's the example.  via the receiver port here so that's the example so a little bit about the protocol so you can accept some many online materials so like in here you can see that because it have only transmission  and uh you know the the uh transmission pin and the receiver pin so you need some internal clock to manipulate it and you are here  send the data bit one by one and um you have a signal pin here and you have a internal clock here
(49:15)  and the data you can see here so this is a tx or a x as i mentioned earlier so this is a single pin and it will be aligned with the clock here  so it will send the data from you know least significant to most significant and  it framed by start and stop signal so there is start signal here and stop signal here  and in the middle part you can see all the data bits so uh basically you know the  the id stage is going to be one here and then when it have a it moved to zero  and it triggered the start and it followed by some bit for data and then end with some
(50:00)  stop signal. That's the UART. And there are some additional things like parity bits or  the stop bit. So I just give like a reference so you can read or you can access other, you  know, other online materials. So that's about UART.
(50:28)  So to, you know to to access the url port to configure your port we could use some terminals  and there are many available terminals to you know to accept the fpga devices  via uart so in here i just named some uh an application uh like aera term so you can download online it's absolutely free free  so in the tera term you can do the configuration so you can choose the senior port here and you  select the port you have to check the design manager to know exactly comport that is connected to the FPGA. So in this example here, COM port number four is utilized.
(51:10)  So you can connect it.  And because the default setting, it has a baud rate  is like 9,600 and the data bit is 8.  So in the hardware design, in the design at the early stage we use  a you know a higher uh board rate so you have to move we have to change it to uh two thousand  two hundred thousand uh you know uh two hundred and thirty thousand around that numbers and then you pick it in here  that's the design you need to do the configuration  and now if you run the design test you can figure out that
(51:54)  the application on the FPC with display  it can send the signal and display some data here  so now on the pc you can receive those you know messages so just a  memory test application and just application run with the you know some mode and it tests  all the reason on the memory so this is the bay address of memory and this is the the mode the test so it basically is the test example so yeah you can  follow that okay all right so now we uh completed the uh the verification with the applications  so let's move to the next part so So in the next part, we will write the applications to access or to interface with the FPGA design.
(52:54)  So in the reference code, I already gave you the code, the sample code. So in the main.c in a skeleton code, you can find the sample code for  host-fpc communication if you want. So in this file, you can see different functions like open  port, close port, or other testing functions like test hello or echo arriving from the file to the FPC or reading the FPC  reading from the FPC to the file or you can write some configuration or you can  start the engine and can verify the result or write the image so this is the
(53:41)  flow so assume that we run the application and it will start it.  Now to start it, we open a com port with open port. Then we can verify the connection,  we test the hello, or we can write some data to the FPGA you can store like  you know the input image or the weights and the model parameters and now we can trigger the engine  the accelerator and then you can read the results soon that you complete the calculation and the result for the tensor for layer 14 and 20 are given  are stored in the gear ram and now you want to load the data back to the pc and on the pc we
(54:37)  can verify the result and we can display the image as one and you can close the comport  display the image as one and you can close the com port and then you stop the application  that the entire flow so we will visit it one by one so like uh it's an open com port here it just uh you know open the port and as you can see in here the port name is four  so now we can open the port and we can test some function so like in here you  can see like we already gave you the code though in the open port function we
(55:14)  already decide the boot rate and the byte size the you know how many bits per  data and the stop bit option we use a single top bit and no parity bit so that's the option we choose here  and in the function for checking the connections you can see like a test echo here so you start  we send a comment like a model a mode a test echo and you you send the data this is a function write  fine so it is going to be uses the buffer and the size of data that can be  written to the fpc and there is the risk response so if you keep waiting for the
(56:01)  confirmation or acknowledgement signal from the fpca so that the flow so send the comment  sending the data and waiting for the response that the flow  and you can see other functions so we can write the comment and check if the fpca it well  read it well receive it well so here this is the code allow you to send the model,  the DNN model configuration, the Jolloh model.
(56:33)  So you can send the model configuration to the FPGA.  And for the model sending here,  there are some predefined file. So actually you can skip  it but it allows you to give, you know, give you more freedom to config the model from  the PC, the host PC. But here, yeah, we just send like a bay address or something like that, but obviously you can can you know pack or it can do have coding this information on the.
(57:14)  fpc site Okay, you can fix some parameter on the fpc and even conflict the journal engines from the beginning, So you don't have to care about this part as well.  All right.  In the next part,  this is the next part,  we can see the way to send the data to the FP0.  So you can send,  you can open the file,  load the data to the buffer and close the file and  then you send the comment to the fpz to check if you run you you send the data correctly without  the flow so you can send the weight model the model parameters and you can send their input image
(58:07)  and uh you can you know you send the data and again you can check if the data if you receive  correctly okay and now we can trigger the engine you can start the engine so you just send the code that's as the fpc you know trigger or  activate the engine you know that the flow and uh after that you can read the results  there is a read data function so we already gave you the read from the fpc to five so you can you know call the function to to get the data so basically you need to  you know put this is a compote it's already available the this is a comport handler and
(58:55)  you just set the file name the directory for the file name and this is the address, the base address on external memory and how many data you want to read.  So you can call the function to read the tensor for the layer 14 and 20.  Those layers are going to be used to display or to verify the final result.
(59:28)  And in here, there is some code that will allow you to receive the data into the buffer.  So calling this API, basically it transmits the data from the fps here at the this address on the  bay address you know on drm and install in the file name here and now we can verify the result so in the  verify function here you can see that there is a source by and destination file  and how many was to check so basically compare all the values in file A and B  and then we can give you the confirmation like here if the fire
(1:00:18)  correctly equally equal sorry so that the way we do the verification okay and here  actually this is a logic in here so in the this layer actually we provide some  code to display the result so basically we execute the Zulu layer and when we see the Zulu layer, actually we just load the data from the file and that's data actually given from the FPCA so we can confirm that the calculations are correct.
(1:01:08)  All right, and lastly, we can close the COM port, the UART port, and then we finish the application.  Okay, so that's about the UART and how we make the function to do the UART interface.  And now we see how we can do the fpz verification based on that  so as you just remind you that we have a fpz board and inside the board you can see like we have a  all the design we have a cpu we have a you know memory interface we have uart or we have UART, we have the test logic or the custom IP and all the components here are connected via interface for system clock, reset, UART and external memory interfaces.
(1:02:15)  And now, because we have a processor, the micro-place here,  so this processor allows us to control all the components on the FPGA side at the port.  So we can create a project with the hardware file so i will show you  previously so we have a you know the hardware design the x sa file and we have a you know  the memory test volume so this is a flow we can create the project the hardware platform create the application replace the code with simple code and v project and download the bitstream and test the
(1:02:54)  design without the flow and uh at the first stage if we just use the uh you know the default project as you can see in here there is the fpj board  and uart communication and if you just run the default memory test then um press the reset  button here you can see that there is the uh you know the application on the terra term like this  a terra term like this so this is the confirmation i mentioned earlier and now if we build and test you have to close it application and now we can move and we can test the you know the um
(1:03:37)  the application we made with the visual studio here pre make sure that you define, enable, or uncomment this line.  And this is the structure here.  This is the host, the code for the host PC.  You control it from your PC.  And on the right hand side, you can see the memory test.  This is the firmware code that's going to be downloaded to the fp0  it's going to be executed by cpu micro blaze so that's the point so we have a host here we  have a pc we have a you know micro blaze source code here and this is the application. So we built and test the application with, you know, Zolo.
(1:04:31)  So you know that there is some function like, you know, all the function we have here. So  this is a microplaced code. So we have a set config, we have some flag, and we have UART initialization, you have UART receiver, UART sender, or you have write address or read address that allow you to copy the address to the IP on IP 0.
(1:05:00)  And now if you run, you download the bitstream and application to the FPCer, you can see  here you can run and launch to the FPCer.  So let's see some example here.  If we open the interface and verify the connection, then again, you can see like on the host code,  what we did is open the COM port  and test by sending the hello and echo here.
(1:05:29)  And on the FPGA, it will receive the comment from the host.  So host send the comment.  And now the FPGA received the comments  like the most test hello or most test echo and it will you know for a given  comment like this it will send it back send the hello message the message are given in the  previous page here the hello world something like that and it's sent back to the host  and uh for the text echo here actually you are receive some signal from some some data  from the horse and it send it back to the the horse so FPGA receive some data and send it back
(1:06:18)  so it just has the loopback patterns and this is what we receive on the host if you run the skeletons if you  see you know executable file here you see there is respond hello and this is  mode and when we send a call like ABCDE and then you can get some response and display on the monitor.  And now when we want to send some data like in here,  we just read the configuration file from the model configuration file.
(1:07:01)  And we just want to gather the function like a bay address or  something like that you can write down that kind of configuration and in the fpc when we get the  the comment from the host it will you know it received some fly so and then it decoded like a store the bay address  configuration and finally it sent the you know UART respond the completion  respond to the host to complete the part okay and this is the what the data you  can see on the screen the monitor so basically it provides you the  bay address for different layers so you can recalculate it on your own but in here you
(1:07:53)  just make very simple calculation so just keep adding the data something like that  okay that's about the layer calculation layer configuration and in the next part we can see the  way to store the data from the host to the fpc or the DRAM on the fpc so like in here  in the host code we want to write from the file to the fpc So we just define the you know COM port handler and the directory to the file  and this is the you know feature map and conversion input 32 bit dot hex file and we want to write down
(1:08:38)  this at this uh just address on the external memory and this is the amount of data we want to send to the  FPGA. And similarly, we want to write the model parameter. Obviously, I already explained  to you like for some first layer, you don't have to stack the data.  However, I'll give you some example here.
(1:09:11)  Assume that you have this weight file,  you want to send it to the FPGA and you can follow this pattern.  You can use the function from file to FPGA.  This is the code on the FPGA site.  On the FPGA now, when they receive the comments, store to RAM, store to DRAM, it will receive some data.  So at first, it will receive the amount of data. So it will have an address, the address and the data site that can be installed to direct.
(1:09:47)  And after that it will receive the data one by one. So for a given data site here, it will receive every full bite and for each, you know,  data it installed to the you know external memory based on the you know the address plus some offset  so address here actually is a bay address provided by the host okay  and uh in the host here you can see like uh here it will have some you know code for some some you know some some message  pop up for sending the input image or the model parameters and in the next stage you can start
(1:10:38)  the engine so you can write down some engine and activate it so basically it just send them  some engine and activate it so basically it just send them you know the batteries for read write and some result but anyway you can modify  this code okay here we just give you some example and now we assume that the  engine already complete the design complete the execution and the results are given now we want to load  the data from the fp series to the host so we we have a folder sees a skeleton binary and log
(1:11:17)  results fp0 so now what we want to do is we copy the result from here back to the file on the host.  So we will accept the FP0, the DRAM from this address.  This is the amount data.  And then we want to store it into this file.  And it's simpler for the model parameters.  So we like in here because we send the input image  and we send the model parameters.
(1:11:49)  So we will we will load it back and we want to verify them  so that's the way we do  so on the FPGA side actually it will decode the bay address and amount of data we want to read  and then it will read the data from the DR based on the base address and the amount of data and send them back to the host PRU.  And this is the result you can see from the host. So basically it sends the comment first and it keeps loading, keeps reading the data and you know, install to the file.
(1:12:26)  And here's a marker to indicate the location of the data  because we load package by package.  And here, at the last part here,  you can see it can save the results to the file.  So at the first step, it will can save the results to the file so at the first step it will keep  loading the data in the buffer and finally you go right to the file okay and the last stage here  almost last stage here is about verifying the fpz result so we want to do the comparison between the results from the host and the
(1:13:08)  FPGA. So on the host here, this is the given result. Like you do it by running the code on CPU  and now you get the result from the FPGA and we want to compare the result from the file so you can call this function so just specify  the location of the files the input from the cpu calculation and the result from the fpz and then  you can confirm that the code the design is working correctly or not so in this particular this in this particular example here we can  compare the result from the you know the input and the model parameter for the first layer
(1:13:55)  those are the port so you can change it to another frame and there is a code to display the image  there is a code to display the image so as i mentioned earlier we after we get the result from the fp series we can do the inference we can display the image based on that result  and like in here we can write down the image like a skeleton binary test zero one dot z pick and even  01.jpeg and even this is the result you know you can write out the result to the file so this is the input file and there this is the output file so the detect quantize.pmg gonna be write out
(1:14:40)  based on the result from the ftc  based on the result from the FTC. Okay, so  this is the last slide  for today's lecture.  In summary, after this lecture,  you understand how to pack an IP  with XC interface,  how to build and  config a block design with  CPU UART, memory interface, and custom IP.  And I will also show you how to implement and verify the design,  and how to make a host FPGA interface,  or how to transfer the data between host and FPGA VR UART.
(1:15:18)  So now you can reproduce the results,  and based on it, you can make your own design so again i'm sorry that we have  a lecture on holiday but i i hope that you uh you know you can have more information and just complete the competition well so thank you and goodbye
