(209) Lec08 System integration III IP Host FPGA communication - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UTycLRqdQsI

Transcript:
(00:00)  Thank you. Okay.  Good morning, everyone.  Can you hear me clearly?
(01:30)  quite long but i hope here you can know that this tutorial can cover important information and then it help you to you know to do the competition so the topic for today is the system integration  three and we are going to talk about the host FPGA interface and the custom IP.  This is the roadmap for today's lecture.
(01:56)  First of all, I will review the content of some previous lectures.  And then we will spend some time for you know fpza board and then we  can talk about the pc fpza communication and then lastly we talk about the custom ip  okay so for this is the top structure and tutorials that I already presented at the very first lectures.
(02:27)  So you can see that we start with the hardware based on the models we got from the  tutorial 1 to 3.  And today we are going to talk about the tutorial 8 and then we will talk about the remaining items in this figure. It's marked with the light green background.  Okay, so let's start with some very brief introduction for the quantization.
(03:20)  It's about the data preparation. So you know that we need to do the inference on the hardware.  We need to prepare some data, including the input image, the model or weight quantization  and the activation quantization.
(03:49)  For example, from the image, from the given image in here you need to convert into the format like hexadecimal what is  this and there this can be readable and then you know you can transfer this content to the  fpj board so that the hardware engine you develop can execute and can do the computation on this input image.  The second input is the quantized model.  So you will have a weight or filter and as you can see in here it converts all the filter  into the 8-bit parameters.
(04:28)  And you have a BIOS and scale.  So for example, in this specific case, there are 16 channels.  So we have 16 sets of filters, bios and 16 scales so scale here in bios here we already  do the like batch normalization folding the techniques i presented on lecture number three  so you can follow  of that formula so that in the hardware we do not have to use the dividers to do the  you know the adding batch, adding bias and the you know batch normalization.
(05:17)  And there another parameter we also need to you know to do in the reference software and you need to implement the hardware is activation quantization.  So you need to specify the data format like a side bit and there are how many integer bits to define a number and how many fraction of it.  So let's go to this format in a little bit in detail.
(06:01)  So in here we need to, you know,  for the weight or activation quantization, we need to specify how many bits will be used for assign, integer or fractional parts.  For example, in here, if we use the bit or an f bit i is a subform for  integers and f is soft form for fractional so for example you have a q 0 8 in here or q 4 4 in here  actually you can have a certain format like this and there you use a one bit for sign for the upper  part you use a four you know seven bit for the fractional part and the zero bit for you know  into the part so you can convert the range you any additional conditions, and you can convert this format into the range of number from 0 to 0, 128 to 127, divided by 2 to 7. So mostly it will cover the range from 0 to 1.
(07:32)  Okay, so how about if you use another format like 1, 3, 4, like in this figure.  Then you will have another range like from here is you can use a three bits  for you know integer part so it's been covered away from minus you know four  to uh minus eight sorry two seven something two eight actually  h sorry two seven something two eight actually so it's a can be the same you know representation but  you imply that you you're going to divide the numbers by two to four  all right this is a bit format that you know should be you know you should specify in the reference software
(08:27)  and then you should let the hardware know about those parameters and the four very neighbor  uh very simple example that we did with the you know the hardware code in previous lecture  the hardware code in previous lecture so we just truncate the less significant bits  in the accumulation research devices so you've the 19 to 0 and there you just capture  a bit from 19 to 12 0 on LSP bits.
(09:28)  So that is what happened with the hardware that you can implement it.  However, even though you use the 8-bit in here, you still, you know, you need some,  you know, some implied format. So because in terms of binary format, either of them just, you know, the 8 bit numbers, right like a 0 0 0 1 2 1 0 1 something like that.
(10:00)  like this so what numbers the the you know binary string represent for based on the format that you  decide so it can be either 107 or 134 in this you know in this case all right so the key message here is you must specify the data format for all layers.  So for in another slide, after we get the models and the parameters, then we can implement  the hardware.
(10:41)  For CNN oscillator, we assume that all the files are generated.  And then we build the hardware modules to do the inference.  So those modules can be maxed on gbufers and consular as we already did in the last lectures.  Okay, so in the last lecture, you will see that you have a lot of parameters here.
(11:11)  The input and the input image and the features and the scale environment.  And then you can design the hardware for like a DMA that can load the input image.  And there, do the calculation by generating the input pixel.  And you could also use a weight of filter from the model you generated, do the calculation with the  processing and finally get the result.
(11:54)  This is what we did in the last lecture.  So for today's lecture lectures we are going to  to handle the remaining components we will talk about the app the key thing is we even talk about  their pc and fpga interface via uart and we have a hardware we have a firmware and we have a software host code. So all the red blocks. So in the figures, those, you know, items we are going to talk today.
(12:35)  Okay, let's talk a little bit about the FPGA board.  So this, you know, this is the FPGA design flow that I already presented. And we have a function simulation up to the midterm evaluation. You may focus on the function simulation.  quantization, prepare some data, and do the RTL design based on either Xilinx IP and some logic that you have to develop.
(13:15)  And the second part will be the FECA implementation.  And you do the logic synthesis implementation, you will do some timing analysis or power resource analysis and  then you generate the dsp and generate the bit stream and finally do the programming fpga  programming and then so that you you can do the inference on the fpga board this is the fpg board  do the inference on the FPGA board. This is the FPGA board.
(13:47)  Okay.  So this is the FPGA board that we use.  This is a Nexus A7.  But the model is 100T.  It's a larger model. There are 50T smaller smaller ones and then we have a 240 dsp slide on you know  two or megabit um about five megabit block ram and there we have a pretty  pretty large external memory. So that's gonna be sufficient for this design.
(14:30)  Alright, so we got a question about how to choose an FPc board. So you when you create the VivaRail project, you can you know you can go to this step to choose a default, you know, designing part of what was a project and there you can click  to the board and then you install and update some board like a  nexus a700t like so in the figure  actually in the code i provided to you uh in the today lecture actually i already upload the  materials on slack so i believe that you already accept the materials.
(15:28)  So you can copy the Nessus A7-100T into the folder, the directory.  So it should be the Vivado installation directory and there is a go to the board fight and there there is there is some default um pet but  the sometime here you will install this on the another location so you you need to check  it because it's a view you know the vibrato software require quite reasonable amount of sign.
(16:08)  So it you may install in the another folder.  So in that way you you can copy it. So you can either select this method or the second method for you or for using the nesist a 700t fpz board after that  you can actually you can see the board why when segment display, clock, Ethernet, external memory,  or USB, UART, something like this. So you can see the components in the board.
(17:08)  Alright, so let's move back to the code. I'm going to talk a little bit about the code structure I provided to you.  So you can extract the PCAP0UART.z and then open the project. Actually, this project was developed in Vivodo 2021.1 version. Then you may just support the read-only mode.  So you may need to file the project file then  you can click on open block design so this is a you know the folder and then you go to the entire  project and it has a block design here and then you can see this kind of block diagrams
(18:27)  And then you can see this kind of block diagram that we are using. So in the baseline, this baseline version, you see the CPU, this is CPU or processor.  And you see the UART line for UART interface, universal asynchronous receiver and transmitter.  So this is the full explanation for UART.  And you see the MIG here.
(19:00)  This is a memory interface generator so it has a mic you could make seven because this is the version number  seven of the memory generator from design it and you can see the interconnect of us master and we have a slave here and we have another slave here.  Right. And it has a small cache in here.  So it can serve as a cache, the data and instruction cache for the CPU.
(19:46)  Right.  So let's visit the eight components step by step.  So for micro brace, I believe this is  the soft processor core providing an instruction set for embedded applications with many user  configurable options.  So you actually use this micro place has many advanced architecture features like instruction  data cache and previously we just saw the cache and it have a ax9 interface  and you already know that this is the axi master  because the the module the processor always is the master of the bus so this is one to control
(20:49)  always is the master of the bus so this is one to control you know x components in the bus system  all right so the second uh module is a uart light because we want to do the communication between the uh fpj and pc boards so it it has generic UART version.  As I mentioned earlier, UART is a soft form for the universal asynchronous receiver-transmitter.
(21:16)  So it can receive, like PC can receive some data from the FPGA board or transmit some data.  So it transmits the models.  Let's see, PC and FPGA.  So it can transmit the input and the model parameters.  And after doing calculation, then it will receive the tensor  the output yeah  the output here all right so memory interface is the guI based menu to generate the memory interface.
(22:14)  And this module is used to do the communication with the external memory so you you know i just draw a part of the system here so this is a bus or ax9  bus and there we have a controller or mit here and this will be connected to the external memory, in this case, this is DDR2.  So this part will be on chip or inside the FPC chip. And we have another AX9 interconnect and this AX9 interconnect IP connects one or more AX9 stay among of them and then they can do the communication among master and slaves.
(23:55)  Alright, so this is the address mapping.  And how the master can access the slave. So they use the global mapping address for master and slave.  So the mapping address will be specified by bay address and range.
(24:31)  So bay address in here, you can see this other units unique values so for example for uart  the bay address should be um uart here in here  uh four zero six zero and uh it allowed to access the 40 uh 64k so the maximum value to access the 64k. So the maximum value to access the UART will be this one.  So if you want to access the memory, then we will use another address.  uh you know eight zero zero zero and zero and because we have a 128 megabytes  mega memory then the the maximum address should be this one  all right this is about the pc i mean fpj board so we're going to talk about how we can make the communication between the PC and FPGA.
(25:29)  Okay, so it have what we need to prepare is hardware.  There are three parts. First is hardware. Second is the firmware.  And the last should be the host PC. So the hardware here we just mentioned we have a processor  we have a memory interface or controller we have a x9 interconnect and we have a uart and interface  and there to build um an application on micro micro blades then we can use a fetish and then we this application will receive  a certain comment from host pc and then it can do the calculation or it can do the you know
(26:32)  the data from the PC to the external memory. In the hot PC, we now read an image of the operator and send comments and data to the MPC4.  Alright, so this is the block diagram of the entire system I already mentioned previously.  the block diagram of the entire system i already mentioned previously  then we need to do the we assume that we already build the hardware then then we can generate the vstream and export the hardware based on the formula so we can do the well it have um  So we can do the well, it have a first we should create the HDL wrapper. And then, you know, we let the actually just let the viewer do this.
(27:17)  After that, we can generate, you know, we have a can click to generate generate bitstream here so we assume that the design already create and then you can  just click on the generate bitstream and the next um you know we we just then you know click make  okay at the pop-up windows then we Vivado will start generating bitstreams.
(27:48)  Actually, it can take some time.  You need to wait until the bitstream generation is completed then you can see the windows and there you just maybe click  on the cancel it's okay or you can open the design as well actually this is a is optional so you can  open the design and you can see the location of each component in their kinds of in the layout  see the location of each component in the layout. But sometimes it will look too complicated to understand, then you can skip it.
(28:35)  Alright, so after generating the bitstream, now you can export the hardware.  So you can go to your file export and export hardware.  Select the include bitstream and then you can name the AXI file and select finish.  So you can have a you know hardware and then it's kind of building your small pc and then you you can  you can view an application on this hardware  all right so about the firmware we need to make the you know we have a hardware then we need the the firmware and there that can  can they can operate on the hardware we just built then we use a vttest to build that kind of application so it can be responsible for the kind of compiler so it
(29:49)  will generate the instruction for the hardware for the micro blades that we use so how you can  and install the Vitis.  You go to insert to the Xilinx Information Center  and then click on the manage install  and then add tools and device and select.  So I will skip those two and then you just practice at home.
(30:26)  Alright, so now you can click on the open blockis the project on the based on the the software that you just  install so with the the i xi here it is generated the hardware we can create the Vitek project. We can go to Tune and launch the Vitek IE.  Then we can create the application project.  Now we select Create a new platform from the hardware.
(31:20)  We built the hardware and now we are building the application on that. So in here it already specifies the location for the project, and then you can click on the finish in here to view the application.  And there in the code, you can add some file here.  So select new and you can create the main file or see so in the the reference code we provided to you there is a  firmware main.
(32:18) c so you can use that at the reference and then for this kind of tutorial  okay so you can review the project and then press the view button  project and press the view button.  It's been finally after you generate the code, I mean the  binary file, and then you can do the run as with the launch  hardware, like in this figure  and now here the the means dot c will be executed on the  the fpj ball on the hardware that uses view so that's about how we can make the project and then how we can do the hardware and build the  the fittest application on the hardware. So let's take a you have a firmware here.
(33:29)  You have a host PC.  So I'm going to explain about the content in the Xpire a little bit.  Right, so for host PC first, you can see if you open the code, you can see that this kind of structure. So you have a main file here. It will perform three main steps.  First, it opens the USB-UART port and we say it's like COM8 in here so in zone pc when you you know plug the you know the fpc port via you usb  you are capable to zone pc then you can check in the device manager which you can check it in  device manager and then you can see the port numbers.
(34:27)  And then in the second step, you can see a function like a test hello here.  And the input is a comport handler.  So it has a handler for the COM port.  And the first step should be close.  So after we using the COM port, we should close.  Otherwise, other device cannot use this COM port.  So that's about the main function.
(35:00)  We have a set of simple functions like open and close port, test hello, echo, store file, verify.  For open port, it will be used to establish the connection with the FPGA board and it returns the handler variable. And this variable will be used for other functions. And then as I mentioned earlier,  And then, as I mentioned earlier, you should check the device managers to see which you know comport is connected to the.
(35:56)  To the going to be just do the communication and get some response  from the fpz board and display like a hello world or send some message to the pc  there are another file another function for storing a file to the apj go so like a store file in here it determines this is the  comport and their file name it will store from the base address and how many the number number was restored to the drem on the episode  for like a verified function then it will load the part of the drem and check if it's a you know we
(36:54)  do the comparison between the the the input from the pc and there's what we read from the DRAM and then we check whether it's a so thing identical  and there it have some function it's going to be for custom IP so  now now let's see the store find function a little bit in detail.  So at the top of the first part, it has a read file and store its content in a buffer.
(37:37)  So it just like app send here to the buffer.  And then in the second step, it aims to store the content in the buffer to the DRAM. So at first, it sends a comment.  And the comment flag here is the mode store RAM. And then after that, it will send the  metadata like the base address or how many words you're going to send so it let the fpca know about  what kinds of how many you know was the pc been sent to the fpc and then it this is kind of um  kinds of um small pros of uh control protocol reviews to make the communication between
(39:00)  the fpc and the host smoothly right and then finally it um it will rise it checks some response to know that whether the metadata is sent correctly.  And finally, it sends some data that were stored in the buffer variable, then checks the response.  So you can see the code clearly.  In summary, this function will provide you a way to send content from a file to the DRAM  based on the bay address and the range.
(39:41)  So you need to specify the bay address and the range so that you can separate the you know the  content layer by layer or maybe input and the feature something like that  okay let's move to the firmware code  So this is the hands, you know, the communication between the host code and the FPGA is handset  king interface.
(40:14)  And there in the in the firmware code, we also have to initialize the device, the UART device.  And then we have some function for receive the data from the PC.  So it will receive the data from the PC via UART and then stored to some variable like a receive buffer and it has a ursense that use to send the data from fpga to pc  via url and it have a write address and read address those i use to  to you know to to  to accept the IP on the APJS. Okay, so there are some flags, some modes we are using now.
(41:18)  It's just like a 01 here.  We just send them.  We will check the comment from the ap series and then we  we send i mean the fpz board will send the hello message back to the pc or it's a have a you know  zero two it receives a 16 by screen from pc and then send it back to pc and other options  okay let's see the main function on the fpj board so it have um first it's a  you see a lot of function declaration here and the in after that you have a you see the main file. The main file has two parts.
(42:10)  First is for the initialization of UART.  And it has an infinite loop in here. This is the Y1.  So if there is no break condition, then it just keep running on the you know, and visible.  Right. So let's see about the loop in detail.  So it wait some it been read one by from FBZ I mean it it wait and it just read one one by from FBZ I mean from the PC  so it check the value it check the mode whether it's a you know hello echo or it can be other option this is for store to DRAM or something like this
(43:13)  so depending on the the mode it reset then it will execute certain operation  operation. Now let's see a little bit in detail about how we can load and store the data.  Because we need to send the input and the models to the FPGA board.  So it has a function here, store to FPGA analysis.  So it will copy the data from the buffers to the memory in the FPGA.
(43:55)  And there it can do in reverse order, like load some data from DRAM to the buffer. So like in here, some content from the memory  is copied to the temporary variable  that can be sent to the PC.  So just remind you that you have address mapping  just remind you that you have an address mapping in the page 20 or 21 and you can see that this is  the bay address and this is the bay address that's you know  that's it you use to to accept the ddr the external memory. And if you want to accept another device, then you use a another address, and then you need to specify the the offset.
(45:00)  Alright, the last thing is about the custom IP.  So the question here is how to make a user define IP like the inference engine that we  are building and add the IP to the system.  So like in the figure from the week number four, actually week number one to week  number seven, we try to build some inference engine and now we need to wrap it in certain  IP and then add to the system. So let's do a little bit simple example because your our engine have a lot of files so this example is simpler we just
(45:49)  have one module called test logic and then we are going to make ip to you know to access this  module from the system so what we do is we even create a custom ip and add it to our design  What we do is we create a custom IP and add it to our design. It will be a very simple logic calculator.  It starts with 32-bit inputs A and B.
(46:35)  6 file numbers like some difference or it's all or it's not some you know operation  and there this is the memory map this is the memory map so all the register um map it to the you know to the offset value so you know that it in  x register can be accessed based on the bay bay address plus some offsets like the previous line  the previous slide when we want to accept your DRAM so my address will be given globally and the offset will be used to accept the specific resistor locally so likely we want to accept the  a and then we provide base plug zero but we want to accept b and base plug four something like that
(47:24)  But you want to accept B and base blood for something. Right. So in the following we'd be how we mean I mean so you server step.  Then it it gonna be useful, you know, so practice.  So you you I mean, keep you know, I can just move very quite fast in this.  So at first we need to create and pack the new IP.
(47:51)  And then you can see the location. You go to tools and create and pack the new IP.  So in here we already assume that we already complete all the design.  And then we make the IP. it's kind of wrapping for the  design then when the windows appear then we click next and then we choose create a  new WAI-X I4 Preferred.
(48:50)  We make some new IP based on the logic we made and then we click next okay all right in this uh we in this you know we in the  next window we just um select a name for the new ip and then let our IP is a slave, so it will receive some information from the master from the processor.  And you already know that there are 8 resistors, 2 for input and 6 for output.  So we will specify 8 resistors in here.  And that's about the IP we are going to make.
(49:34)  The interface here is AXI Lite.  Lite version for AXI.  And this is the slave.  If you because for Dma you need to make the additional master, then here you should add your it in this you will have a.  you know plus number i mean icon here so you can add another interface like a master and another  slate stop to zone desire okay so now you can select the edit ip and the click finish  so we new project will be open  So we need project will be open. Okay, so you can add the source, the file like a test logic in here and it will.
(50:33)  You can double click on the test IP is the first version, using just a slave, a x line, and we you're going to edit this one so it have a baseline or we  have a skeleton code and then you just add in the certain logic and in here you just add an instant  and instant  of the design  so in this design here is just a test logic very simple logic  so it have two input here and you have a six output  okay input here and you have a sixth output okay all right so after that you're using the check enable this is the enable signal signal to when we when the slave receives and we comment from master and then depending on the
(51:53)  i mean the depending on the volume then we can assign you know some resistor index noises  sum register index like this so you can read the sum  difference or bit y and or all  it's not awesome  alright so now you can save the file  and go to the packing step  and go to pack ip and test ip type here  this is this tab and then go to find group tabs and then more change from the five group insights  so we are going to pack all the design with the interface into the new ip all right  all right after that here we review impact and then we go to repack ip and then we can
(52:58)  complete so now let's add the new ip in the. So get back to the project because you know that we just opened the new project for making  a new IP, a custom IP.  So now you just go back to the PCI pressing the plus button and search the test IP.  Here you can see the test IP, the new IP that we just made based on the test logic value of 5.
(53:42)  And we can add the new IP here and then we run the connection.  Okay, you can click and then you know go to the IP, and you can see the IP here and then it have closed source for SLAB interface and just click OK. Alright, and there we can connect the existing system to the new IP we made.  And then press the validate design button.
(54:19)  And there we can, finally we have a new system like this.  Compared to the previous system, we have a test IP design here.  You are supposed to make the Inferent Engine IP, the AI Accelerator IP engine in this design.  So the new IP that we built and now it's added to the system.  Okay, so let's check the address mapping.
(55:00)  Now we have a new address, a new base address for the IP that we submit.  And in here, this is the 4480.  Assume that we can accept the 4644K value for this address. Then, that's why the range should be from this number to this number plus the FFF.  So, in the firmware code, we can access the IP as we did with the external memory.
(55:47)  So we use a bay address here  for writing the input  that we got from the PC to the IP.  And then you just do copying from the buffer to the IP. And we also can read out the research  from the IP and in reverse order.
(56:31)  So we copy the content from the IP and then from some resistor in the ip and then we save it into the temporary  variables and then we can uh you know display or send send it to the host code  all right so what you need to do is as shown in the figure.  So for the FPGA verification, you should build an AXI, an inference IP for CNN Observator.  For example, if you want to send some configuration for the controller via AXI, you can send the width, height the controller and the controller can execute  different data flow and complete the operation for entire system  okay so that's the end of today's tutorial so we already already completed the 8th tutorial.
(57:48)  And I hope that you can get good information for this competition.  And then you can learn a lot and then you can do the competition very well so is there any questions  okay so as usual i am going to upload the video file and there you cannot do study by yourself  thank you very much for your attention and as i mentioned here this is the  last tutorial so i will answer the question via slack when when when i got any inquiry from you  okay thank you.
